[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots [music] podcast. I'm Jill
Weisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, it feels
like 2026 could be a big year for some
mega IPOs that have been private for a
while. There's talk about a SpaceX IPO,
possibly maybe some of the big AI labs.
Like some pretty massive companies that
might be uh hitting the market soon.
>> Someone recently gave me a Facebook IPO
hat from JP Morgan when they worked on
it. Like I'm very proud. I need to start
wearing it around the office.
>> Yeah, I remember.
>> But that was like that was a mega IPO.
There was a mega
>> at the time and there was so much hype
about it and then like technical
difficulties and
>> so many people eager to get in on that
one.
>> It's so many funny people called that a
flop I guess because the technical
difficulties and it didn't do that great
for a little bit. That would have been a
great time to buy it.
>> Yeah. And seriously,
>> the interesting thing about the um
market or one of the interesting things
about the market is you have these
companies that are going to IPO when
they're already gigantic. So like people
point out that in earlier eras they
might have IPOed when they're like
billion-dollar companies and now they're
like octicorns or whatever. And then you
have other companies that are also
enormous and there's no it's not clear
that they're going to IPO at all. You
know I saw a headline about Stripe
perhaps raising more money. People been
they could have probably IPOed years
ago. And one of the questions I have is
are companies choosing not to IPO or
delaying IPO because the public market
is not that fun or because the private
market has gotten so much richer, so
much more liquid, etc. that that impulse
to go public just isn't the same way as
it might have been in a different
generation.
>> Yeah, this has kind of been a longunning
question in the market for a while now.
But one thing I would just point out on
the last point, it feels to me like
companies in the private market, even
though they're in the private market
where presumably the pool of capital is
smaller.
>> Yeah,
>> it feels like they're always
fundraising.
>> This is the other thing too that like it
used to be when I started covering tech
companies, it's like your series A round
and series B round and C and now it just
seems like this permanent round,
especially with some of the AI
companies,
>> always be raising,
>> always raising. Anyway, we need to learn
more about how giant companies are
thinking about capital markets, both
public and private. And I'm really
excited to say we do in fact absolutely
have the perfect guest. We're going to
be speaking with David George. He is the
head of the uh growth fund at Andre
Horitz A16Z.
Someone perfectly situated to explain of
all these things that's going on. So
David, thank you so much for uh coming
on OddLots.
>> Hey, great to be with you all.
>> What is a growth fund? What is the I
thought all VC was growth. What does it
mean when we talk about a growth fund or
a growth round when we're talking about
private markets?
>> Yeah. So, our first of all, it's great
to be with you all. Thanks for having
me. Excited to have this conversation.
So, our early stage funds invest in
companies that are growing fast too. So,
if that's not clear, that is what we
seek to do across all pools capital. For
us, the growth fund is a fund that
invests in companies at the later stage
of their life cycle. So typically once
they found product market fit and our
early stage funds invest in companies
early stage when they're kind of trying
to find product market fit. We invest in
companies once they have found product
market fit. So that's the delineation.
Right now we're investing out of our
fifth growth fund. It's about a $7
billion fund. If you combine the
committed capital of our five funds it's
about $22 billion in overall committed
capital.
>> Wow. What percentage of the growth fund
is sort of directly obtained from the
early stage funds? Because I imagine
that's like that's a good pipeline for
you guys, right?
>> Yeah, it's a great pipeline for us. We
do both. So, we have examples of
investments out of the early stage and
in companies that for whatever reason we
were not early stage investors. So, some
of our largest investments in the growth
fund are are companies like Data Bricks
and Stripe that we were early stage
investors in. And then some of the
largest investments are companies like
SpaceX and OpenAI and Whimo and Roblox
and Figma that we were not early stage
investors in. And the first time that we
invested was in the growth fund. So it's
about 50/50. We love to invest in
companies where we know the founders
really well. One of the things we talk
about all the time is game film. This is
something that public market investors
are very familiar with. They look for
game film. They want to back CEOs,
management teams that have demonstrated
continued success. and and we seek to do
the same thing in the private markets.
>> I like how Andre Horowitz is so
influential and dominant that if you
just
>> name a bunch of random big companies
that are all sort of like the most
important like growing tech companies,
they're actually just going to all be,
you know, like when I said SpaceX, Dick,
Stripe, etc. I didn't purposely say name
try to name a bunch of A6Z family
companies. They just incidentally
happened to me. What do you like? Let's
start big picture with this question of
companies staying private for longer
especially thriving companies companies
that are doing very well IPOing if at
all much later in their life cycle there
are a lot of specific questions but big
picture what's the story what's the main
cause of this the evolution of this
trend
>> yeah absolutely well first I would love
to just set the stage with what the what
the data actually is like what's
actually happened
>> if I'm totally wrong that's also
interesting
>> no no you're not totally wrong. I have a
bunch of supporting facts to your
statement, but the numbers are pretty
eyepopping. So, if you look at the
private markets, highly valued
technology companies represent about $5
trillion of market cap in the private
markets. That's almost a quarter of the
S&P 500.
>> Wow.
>> It's 15% of the NASDAQ. It's 40% if you
exclude the MAG 7. So, it's just
staggering numbers. To your point about
some of the biggest and best companies
in the world being in the private
markets, the 10 largest private
companies represent 40% of that five
trillion of market cap.
>> So this is a massive power law game and
the best of the best companies at that
stage of their life cycle just happen to
be in the private markets and not in the
public markets right now. That private
market kind of five trillion of market
cap that sector of the economy has grown
10x in 10 years. At the same time, the
number of public companies, you guys
have probably covered this before, the
number of public companies has been cut
in half over the last 20 years. So, this
is just a massive shift in the
composition of the public markets and
the private markets. And the best of the
best companies, as you said, largely are
sitting in the private markets today.
The other thing that we look for, you
know, we're a growth fund, but growth
means a lot of things. We look for
companies that are growing, you know,
sort of hyperrowth. We call it
hyperrowth. Growing very very fast. You
know the average investment in our
growth fund is growing about 100%. If
you look at the public markets today,
there's only three companies in our
universe that are growing over 30%.
>> So if you actually want to invest in the
highest growth, most promising companies
that could be that next mag seven,
chances are they're in the private
market. So this is this is just a big
shift in the dynamics, you know,
certainly in the last 20 years, but even
the last 10 or 15. So that's the numbers
behind the trend. The question is why.
>> Yeah.
>> And you know there's there's lots of
reasons why this is the case. I mean you
mentioned it right at the outset. There
are structural reasons in the public
markets that make it harder to be a
public company now than it was 20 years
ago. I think the biggest thing is the
private capital markets are deeper and
more liquid than before. So there's less
of a need for a company to go public
until they need much much much more
capital. in the private markets for the
best of the best companies. They kind of
have the access to the capital that they
need. It's a pretty compelling pitch for
the founder to be able to stay in the
private markets, have liquidity over
time. If you're one of a select few that
can access capital, you know, in the
private markets cheaply, you can kind of
steadily control the stock price
movements. You can regularly run tender
offers. And, you know, for a company,
probably the hardest thing aside from
access to capital is employee
management. And if you can get pretty
close to the dynamics that you get in
the public markets without volatility,
it's pretty compelling to remain in the
private markets.
>> So I have a bunch of questions on just
the growth of private capital. But
before we get to that, you said there
are structural challenges in going
public. And I guess the one we always
hear is like, oh, you have to file
quarterly paperwork. Like not the
paperwork, which I actually sympathize
with because I hate filling out forms
and things like that. But like what are
the reasons that the public market is
perceived to be so much more difficult
or so much more of a operational
headache I guess than private?
>> Well, there is a cost. So, you know, for
a company the size of SpaceX or or Data
Bricks or Open Air or Stripe, you know,
it's not hugely meaningful, but for a
smaller company, you know, it could be
10 to 20 million bucks. And you know, if
you're a company that would have gone
public 15 years ago, you know, 5 years
into your life doing 100 million bucks
of revenue, that's pretty meaningful.
Like that's a major change. And so
you'll want to wait longer. Public
markets, investors, investment banks,
research organizations are tilted much
more toward large cap companies or at
least midsize companies today and and
less so towards small cap. So if you're
a small cap company, it's just very hard
to get the attention of investors. you
know, they they can't write very large
checks and build huge positions in you.
You know, it may not be worth the
investment bank's time or the research
analyst time to cover you. And so, you
know, if that's the case, it's hard to
get the attention of good investors and
make your stock price grow over time.
Uh, so those are a couple examples of
the structural challenges. You know, the
other one is just volatility. You know,
this generation of founders has seen the
2021 runup and then the certainly in the
technology market and and then the
fall-off in 22 and 23 and some of them
have reset their stock prices in the
private markets. But that was a volatile
time. Like if you were issuing stock to
an employee at the peak and then you
know that employee was looking at their
stock grants and saying, "Oh my gosh,
these are down 70%." Like my comp just
got cut by 70%. That's a hard dynamic
for a founder to have to deal with. And
if you can minimize some of that
volatility in the private markets as a
founder, I understand why you would do
it.
>> Talk to us about employee retention,
employee management. Employees, you
know, they love an IPO. They love
liquidity and okay, now you can have
tender offers where they sell some of
their stock to new investors. And then
there's other dynamics too like because
there's all the SPVS out there and maybe
like tokens where someone can hedge
their holdings in a private market on
hyperlquid or something like that. Talk
to us a little bit about the sort of the
plethora of options that employees have
now in a private companies and getting
that uh liquidity and so they actually
get some real money.
>> Let me start by just explaining the way
it works in the public markets and you
know we can contrast the private markets
with that. If you're a public market
employee and you have RSU grants, this
is basically the way it works. You get a
quarterly deposit of net stock, net of
taxes in your account every quarter. And
so if you're a highly paid employee at
>> Meta or Alphabet or Apple,
>> it's like clockwork. You get these
grants, they hit your account, you have
for some of the highest paid people, you
know, hundreds of thousands or millions
of dollars that hit your hit your
account every quarter. And that's
liquid. It's already netted of tax. And
so you can turn around and sell it and
it's like cash comp. Or in the case of
those companies, they've appreciated
tremendously in value over the last 10
years. And so the employees, you know,
who help stock have been handsomely
rewarded. Then they get RSU grants
stacked on top of those. So you kind of
have this like waterfall of RSU grants
over time and increasingly, you know,
over time your quarterly net deposit can
go up. And so if you're a private CEO
competing for talent, that's what you're
competing with,
>> right?
>> And those companies are are flushed with
cash. And so they're able to pay a lot
in stockbased comp to their employees.
And so that's a difficult dynamic to
compete with. That's one of the
strongest forms of the argument for
telling a private company CEO that they
should go public because that is a very
compelling financial reward for your
employees in that public market
situation. In the private markets, the
way it typically works is you get, you
know, you get these RSU grants.
Sometimes they stack up over time, but
generally they're illquid until you go
public. Now, what's happened over the
last, I'd say, six or eight years is
companies will do tender offers in the
private markets where they offer to buy
a certain percentage of employees vested
stock in the private markets. So they'll
set the price. They'll work with
somebody like us and they'll say
something like, "Hey, you can sell 25%
of your vested stock that you have in
this tender offer and you know, we'll do
it once a year." And so that's a decent
substitute for what I described in the
public markets. It's not a perfect
substitute, but for you know, the
employees or potential new hires who are
true believers, I think it's enough to
combat that RSU public market dynamic
and compensation scheme. And you know,
it's worked pretty well. SpaceX has, you
know, famously done a really good job
running twice a year tender offers for
their employees. And, you know, they've
had tremendous employee satisfaction,
ability to hire, retention, etc. And
some of the biggest tech companies have
followed suit. And I would argue that
there's a trade-off that the founders in
the private markets are making where
often if they were public, they probably
would have a higher stock price. So
maybe they're taking a little bit more
dilution and so maybe employees would
benefit a little bit more in valuation
in the public markets, but it's not a
massive gap and it's a it's a pretty
compelling alternative [music]
[music]
just culturally out in San Francisco. Do
people still expect like the default
exit to be an IPO or has that mindset
kind of gone away?
>> The best of the best companies want to
IPO and I think you mentioned some of
the the bigname companies out there who
may stay private for a really long time.
You know, I think the ambition for most
founders is still, you know, to have an
IPO and to be a large established
important public company. You know, we
talked about the pools of private
capital and how they've grown over the
last 10 years. the pools of capital in
the public markets are still much
deeper. So if you need to raise 50,
100,200 billion dollars like some of the
big big companies may want to do to
pursue some of their goals, chances are
they'll end up in the public markets.
>> Part of the reason we wanted to have
this conversation a few months ago,
Tracy and I interviewed the Perplexity
CEO and he was talking about the rise of
SPVS and wanting to say no to money. you
know, people come to him with investment
opportunities and then it's clear that
they just want to package up that equity
in some way and create a secondary
instrument. And I know, you know what,
someone messaged me recently and they're
like, I could get you some preipo
anthropic shares. I'm like, no, I don't
do that. But like, I know that there's a
lot of interest in there. And you
mentioned that if you really want
massive growth at this level that it's
the only ones that growing super big are
the private companies. Talk to us about
the emergence of SPVS and these
third-party entities and you don't even
know who's on your cap table and how
founders are thinking about this
phenomenon.
>> I think founders for the most part
really don't like it.
>> Okay.
>> Because they they want to know who is on
their cap table and there are certain
types of investors who will come to the
founders and misrepresent I think what
what vehicle or or where the capital is
actually going to come from. In our
case, we don't do those. What what we do
is we invest directly out of our funds
and
>> you know we we make that a point of
pride with the founders to say hey you
know exactly what you're getting we're
going to shoot you straight
>> for the SPB industry
>> you know look it works when you know
times are good and it can be horrendous
and and bad you know when when times are
bad you know and is one of our companies
very close with we're one of the largest
investors
>> and they have famously you know gone to
war with some of the SPV husters who are
trying to assemble capital to do a deal
through some obfuscated way around them
and they say, "Look, we want to know
exactly who's on our cap table. You
know, we want to make sure that we're
doing right by our shareholders." And
so, it's a risky maneuver. You know,
it's not to say that there's not some
that that are good, but we try to avoid
it. We try to counsel our founders to
stay away from it as much as possible.
So you mentioned Anderoll and can
founders completely lock them out or
like how does it work such that the
founder doesn't want to have these
vehicles get access to their equity and
yet somehow they do anyway? What is the
path into the company that these
entities are taking?
>> The example would be a fund shows up to
the founder and says, "Yeah, we're going
to invest out of this fund." And they
have some legal entity name that they
have as the fund. And then it's not
fully clear to the founder that that
legal entity actually will just be an
assembly of a bunch of new investors
that are only investing in that single
vehicle. I would say the SPV interest,
there's one other, you know, sort of
additional risk that comes with it.
>> You know, our large investors, RLPs,
they're some of the largest institutions
in the world. They trust us to make
investments and they actually like the
fact that they're investing in a fund
that has some degree of diversification.
Yeah,
>> SPVS are inherently risky because
they're they're single company. And so,
you know, if that company happens to not
go well and you invest in A16Z's funds,
you can live to fight another day
because we have a number of other
companies that are going to going to do
really well. And at the fund level, the
returns will be good. In an SPV, if that
happens to not work for whatever reason,
you know, it could be devastating if if
you put a large amount of capital into
it. talk to us a little bit about
pricing because something you tend to
hear is that well if you go to the
private market there are some benefits
to that but on the other hand you're
probably going to pay you know a little
bit more in terms of cost of capital and
then the other thing you hear is that
well if everything is private it's not
necessarily being marked to market as
often as the public market so maybe
there's some concern around pricing
you're not getting that wisdom of the
crowds effect you're just
a bunch of tech bros investing in tech
bros and that can kind of be a
self-reinforcing cycle.
>> Yeah, look, I I can only speak to our
own business that we're in. I'd make two
observations. One, I feel pretty
strongly that if you took our portfolio
and put it in the public markets, it
would trade higher than the, you know,
than the private markets. And so that
speaks to the, you know, cost of capital
trade-off that the founders are making.
It's benefited us tremendously because
we've been able to invest in companies
that we think are some of the best
companies in the world later into their
life cycle than you know we would have
been able to 10 years or so ago.
interesting data point. If you look at
the returns generated by dollars in the
private markets historically over the
last call it like seven years of good
IPOs
about 50% of the dollars of gain in an
IPO come from the seed through series B
>> and then 50% of the dollars of gain come
from the series C and later. as
companies have stayed private longer
that will massively shift to the series
C and later
>> and the seed through B will be you know
a smaller proportion of the dollars of
gain similarly if you go back 10 years
and you look at all the companies that
have gone public there's a little bit of
like time lag in this so just just bear
with me so the best companies that were
going public 10 years ago generated 88%
of their overall dollars of return in
the public markets so if you just took
total market cap creation only 12% of it
was happening in the private markets. If
you look at the recent crop of IPOs in
the last 5 years, 55% of their market
cap creation happened in the private
markets. Wow.
>> 45% happened in the public markets. So
there is a massive shift that's taken
place in terms of where value creation
happens. That's benefited us.
>> In terms of pricing, we've invested in a
portfolio of of great companies. I
listed all the some of our investments.
Some of our biggest investments are
companies like data bricks and spacex
and whimo and openai and you know and
stripe and flock safety and and
companies like that. If you take our
portfolio on average it's growing 100%.
And we invested at 21 times revenue.
Now, I recognize there are flaws with
revenue multiples and all that, but I
would say if you could let me have a
career, an entire career of investing in
marketleading great technology companies
where we could buy them at 21 times
revenue and they're growing 100%. That
would be an incredible trade or a
incredible investment opportunity. And
so in terms of valuations, I feel like
there is a discount to being in the
private markets and you know founders I
think understand that for the most part
and make that trade-off. But it's
definitely a dynamic that we see.
There's one more thing that I would call
out. You know I mentioned earlier that
only three companies in our universe in
the public markets are actually growing
greater than 30%.
There is a dynamic where I do think it's
hard for public market investors even to
gro really really high growth rates. So
if you're growing like 60%.
I think automatically a public market
investor is going to build a financial
model that says 60 50
20%. And then they're going to value you
as such. And then they'll pick an exit
multiple at year five and they'll apply
it to 20% growth and they'll probably
say at that point you'll be 20% margins
and they'll be happy and they'll call it
a day and they'll have your stock price
be that when in reality, you know, if
you're a great company, you know, like
data bricks that's still growing north
of 60%. like you're worth probably 3 to
4x difference in value if you grow 60%
55% 52% 48% 45% like it's it's probably
like a 3x or 4x difference in how you're
valued and so I do think people like us
with a longer time horizon in the
private markets may have an easier time
of actually groing that very high growth
rate you know data bricks is growing 65%
if you look at the public markets you
know really only Palanteer is you a
software company that's growing that
fast. I think they're growing 70%,
they're about the same size as data
bricks and their valuation multiple is
35 times or or something like that. And
so that's the one example where maybe
public market investors are attributing
a really high valuation to very high
kind of hyper growth. But for the most
part, I think it's pretty hard for them
to gro that. And so again, you know,
when we have conversations with the
founders of the these companies in the
in the private markets, you know, I
think we understand it. I think we
understand multi-product and you're less
likely to find, you know, a full public
market of folks who will give you credit
for that hyperrowth.
>> I find this to be a very interesting
observation. I mean, just generally
public or private, it does seem like
several generations ago, you assume,
okay, here is a really big company. It's
not going to be one of the fastest
growing companies in the world. And you
apply that sort of model mindset where
you marked down their growth
expectations. I mean, even Alphabet, I
think in its latest quarter actually had
faster topline growth than it had in the
quarter before, like on a year-over-year
basis. So, setting aside public or
private, it does feel like there is just
this phenomenon where really gigantic
companies grow at shocking shocking
topline rates year after year in a way
that maybe even still investors might
not appreciate. I have a question for
you. Something I've always wondered.
Okay, let's say one of your big
portfolio companies goes public
eventually, you know, Stripe or
something like that. How does a GP or
how do how does the firm think about
selling at that point? Is it okay,
you're you're a private market investor,
so you get out fairly soon, you don't
want to hold that. Do they get
distributed and then it's up to the LPs
to think about it? What is the sell
decision like once a company is no
longer private?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. And by the
way, to your point on these large cap
high growth companies,
>> it's a really good learning for all of
us that the very best companies can, you
know, sort of defy your expectations and
still grow fast even though they're big.
Like it's sort of the breaking of the
law of the absolute size of a company.
Like Meta accelerated revenue growth to
30% the last quarter,
>> right?
>> Like that's shocking like that a company
that's worth, you know, almost $2
trillion can accelerate to 30% growth.
Same with Google, north of 20% growth.
So if you can find those opportunities,
I would say Stripe is a good example of
this. Previous generations of this would
be like Visa and Mastercard. Like if you
had a strong thesis that those would
grow at north of 20% for 15 years, you
would value it a very different way than
if you thought that that growth would
tail off over time. So yeah, I think
it's great that you brought up Google
and and you know, we think about the
large cap companies to try and inform
what could go right with the best of the
best, the companies in the private
markets for us too, not just over five
years, but over 10 plus years. So to
your question about distributions or
selling, when our companies go public,
our LPs, our investors tend to like to
have distributions as opposed to us
selling.
>> Okay? you know, many of them have public
desks or public operations on their own
and they would prefer to take the stock
and, you know, manage tax consequences
on their own or or maybe they have, you
know, a long book that wants to hold it.
>> And so, you know, we tend to distribute
companies. I would say for the most part
when our companies go public, I'll speak
from the growth fund, you know, where
we're coming in at a more mature stage
of the company. Just because a company
goes public doesn't mean that we will
exit. Now, we always seek to return
capital to our LPs and we want to make
sure that we're doing that on
appropriate time horizon, but often, you
know, we'll find situations in the
public markets where we think our
companies are are massively undervalued.
You know, I'll give you an example. One
of our best companies was company called
Samsara, which does fleet management,
video tracking for drivers. They're the
market leader, second time founders.
They were the founders of Moroi, which
sold to Cisco. So, they're an
exceptional team, doing great. They went
public right at the tail end of 2021
and the IPO market was starting to
freeze and they were the last IPO and so
we ended up being the largest buyer in
their IPO. So all of the public funds
you know Fidelity Tro some of them
invested we ended up actually being the
biggest buyer and then we held that for
a long period of time even though it was
in the public markets. So we'd like to
think about, you know, what is the
future of the company even if they're in
the public markets and we would bias to
hold it a little bit longer if the
founders still running the company. We
place a tremendous amount of value in
founders running companies, which I'm
happy to talk about. And if we think the
the growth prospects are really bright,
you know, we'll we'll tend to sort of
buy to hold a little bit longer.
>> What's the actual catalyst for going
public then? Because if we think there's
plenty of capital in the private
markets, employees are, you know,
generally pretty happy with their
compensation,
people can live with the capital cost.
Why would you go public or like what's
the most common reason in terms of
timing? Yeah, the biggest thing would be
access to larger pools of capital and
you know you finally feel like you're
making that tradeoff where the cost of
capital in the public markets would just
be much more attractive and so you want
to go do it there. So in the case of
building for example data centers in
space yeah
>> that will require a tremendous amount of
capital over time you know you can get a
lot of that capital in the private
markets and you know maybe at some point
it makes sense to tap the public markets
to get that you know if you have huge
ambitions sometimes it's easier to get
debt um and alternative forms of
financing in the public markets as well
and then lastly you know if you feel
like the competition is really fierce
for your employees and you know I
described that dynamic of you know
quarterly RSU use and you know stock
currency that might be a little bit
easier to manage in the public markets.
That would be another reason. It's not
just employees. It's also if you want to
do meaningful M&A, you know, there's
probably a little bit of a benefit to
being in the public markets and having a
public currency that you can use where,
you know, you don't have to debate with
the sellers what the value of your
equity is because it's in the public
markets. You know, there's a there's
[music] a daily stock price. So, those
are a few of the dynamics.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Does the private market trend does that
hold as we see you know more and more
tech is just about AI right and if
there's one thing we know about AI it's
that it requires quite a lot of capital
investment so does that start to change
the dynamics or the balance of power
between private and public in your mind.
It goes back to the same point which is
at some point you know the amount of
capital required it probably makes sense
you know to be in the public markets you
know I do think for largescale consumer
businesses I think there's some value in
being in the public markets you know
letting retail take part in the
ownership of your stock you know having
greater brand recognition you know we we
saw this recently on the B2B side as
well with one of our public companies
and after going public you know
sometimes there's sort of a brand
benefit that you get brand halo you're
better known you know an IT buyer trusts
a little bit more in your future so
there are some of those dynamics that
exist you know AI first of all I think
these have the potential to be some of
the best businesses ever created they're
run by exceptional founders they're
building products that have grown at
rates that we've never ever seen before
so you know they're kind of speed
running the process of company growth in
a way getting to be bigger and more
consequential much much faster than the
previous generation
of companies. So, you know, maybe that
means they should be in the public
markets a little bit faster, too.
>> Maybe last year at some point, Open AI
had a big tender and then suddenly no
one could afford to buy a house again in
San Francisco because all that money
went into real estate. But I there's a
serious question actually and it's
particularly acute at the AI companies.
Is there any stigma of being an employee
who sells some of their shares? It's
like, all right, you can sell 25% of
your shares and then it's like, I want
to sell. It's like what? You don't
believe in the singularity? You don't
believe that we're on the path to AGI.
You don't think you think we're done
with our you think we're almost at the
end of our mission and that our value
won't be 10. Is that like is there any
anxiety on the part of employees at a
real like missiondriven fast growth
company of like I want to dip my toe in
the water. I want to hedge a little bit.
I want to hedge my own company. I want
to diversify away from my own company.
>> Suddenly the founder isn't playing ping
pong with you anymore.
>> Exactly. Is there
>> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. You're not allowed
to have lunch in the cafeteria anymore.
>> I would feel like this would be a real
phenomenon. I would be anxious about
raising my hand. Yeah,
>> I think everything in moderation. Most
of the time there's not like a stigma
and most of the time it's not,
>> you know, an opportunity to sell so much
stock that it would be a vote of lack of
confidence, if you will, right? You
know, if it's 25% of your vested stock
and you've been there for two years,
that means you probably have a ton of
unvested stock. And so, you're talking
about a small proportion of your overall
holdings, right? you know, we never
really see a chance for employees to
it's never designed that way where
employees say, "Oh my gosh, I'm out. I
want to sell 100% of my stock." In fact,
you know, we don't have data on this,
but I would suspect that in the public
markets, you know, employees are
probably selling out of their stock
grants at a higher rate than in the
private markets.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think, you know, if you're if
you're at one of these companies in the
private markets, you probably have a
greater degree of confidence. You know,
if you're a good employee, you could you
could always go to Google or Facebook or
Meta and and clip coupons. But I think
that most of the time the good ones are
true believers. We do have companies
where the founders my one of my favorite
things is when the founders just say I'm
not selling a share. And you know that
is like the ultimate extreme point of
confidence. We spent time with a very
high-profile internet CEO of the
previous generation. It's now a public
company. And one of the meetings we were
talking to him about secondary and he
was so resolute. He was like I'm not
selling a share. Like why would I sell a
single share? like I I'm so confident
it's going to go up, I don't want to do
that at all. And that's a pretty strong
signal of confidence in the future of
the company. So, we look for some of
those signals when we invest. You know,
my my partner Alex Rmpelle wrote a good
piece many years ago to your point on
real estate and buying a house and
affordability.
>> Yeah. that showed Bay Area stock prices,
you know, of like the mega cap stocks
indexed against home values and it's
like perfectly correlated. Yeah.
>> So, you know, home price appreciation is
kind of tethered to the local economy in
a way and so, you know, it's not totally
surprising that you see you see it move
in that direction.
>> Yeah, I think it's fair to say there are
a lot of people in San Francisco right
now who are excited about making money
off of AI and some of them have been
doing so already. But on that note, how
are you actually differentiating between
AI models? I guess like this is a way of
asking how are you cutting through the
hype because we see all these new
companies launching. A lot of them use
similar language. Uh we see total
available market TAM being thrown around
quite a lot nowadays. How do you decide
this is actually like a good business
model versus this is just something that
has AI in the name and is getting some
attention? Yeah. So, we're I we're
investors in we're probably the largest
investor in the AI industry as a firm. I
think we're investors in
twothirds of the aggregate AI revenue.
So, if you were to just sum together all
of the AI revenue of the companies in
the private markets, we're investors in
about twothirds of it. So, I think we
have a front row seat to it.
>> You know, first of all, I'll just start
with the demand side. This is the
biggest thing that we look to. There's a
billion people plus using this
technology getting extremely large
surplus or value out of it. The
companies are the fastest growing that
we've ever seen. You know, active users
spend something like 30 minutes a day on
it. And you know, there's a tremendous
amount of surplus that comes with that
even if you're paying as a subscriber
for those. So on the consumer side, you
know, I think the capabilities are
extreme. They're very, very good. we're
just now starting to scratch the surface
on the capabilities of, you know, sort
of doing work on your behalf. And so I
think we're going to see a ton of
progress on that front over the next
year. But the demand signals that we see
are probably not probably, they are
definitively the best that we've ever
seen in my career. You know, certainly
much faster than, you know, the internet
phase or mobile social, you know, cloud,
SAS, e-commerce, any of those. So
tremendous amount of value on the demand
side. That's the biggest thing we look
for. On the supply side, you know, look,
the buildout there's there's there's a
ton written about the buildout of
infrastructure that's required. It's,
you know, it's larger than, you know,
the US highway system overall. You know,
$5 trillion over the next five to seven
years. The thing that I say about the
supply side is we don't need to make the
decision on investing every single one
of those dollars as an industry today.
The industry can monitor demand and we
can make decisions about capex as we go.
Cycle times are not five years long.
Cycle times are more like 12 months. And
so if we see a weakening of demand or a
lack of payback in some of this
infrastructure buildout, then you know
that's fine. we can we can adjust course
the people who are I think there's
probably a misconception about the
people who are in charge of these these
companies and you know at the center of
all this like us like we and they are
all sort of ROIC or return on
capital-minded people like we're not
going to you know invest a bunch of
capital if we think there's not going to
be a high return from it so you know to
the extent that there is some overbuild
or you know signs of a lack of demand to
meet the supply I think the industry
will adjust you know we've written about
this before. You know, if you contrast
this buildout with the fiber buildout,
so far, if you put a GPU or a TPU
online, it immediately gets used. And
and this holds for actually very old
GPUs and TPUs. Google's disclosed this
about their TPUs that are 10 years old.
You can pretty easily find pricing of
two generations ago GPUs on the market.
And the price of these have all held.
So, there are no dark GPUs. No one is
building data centers that aren't being
fully utilized right out of the gate.
You know, contrast that with the
internet buildout. The internet buildout
was characterized by dark fiber. And so,
you know, you had to lay all this
groundwork before you actually had any
signs of demand. And so, obviously,
there was there was a mismatch in supply
and demand. So, that's the sort of
overall kind of view on supply demand
dynamics. I'm very very optimistic. I
think we're in the early days of
figuring out really interesting
applications to build on top of this
technology. And you know in terms of
model capabilities,
models are improving at a like
eyepopping rate. You know they can
basically double their ability to
complete long form tasks over six to
seven months. And so you know if you
were to just arrest model development
today I think we would have the chance
to build 10 to 20 years of really
interesting applications on top of it.
The big thing that happened in public
markets so far this year is the absolute
slaughtering of sort of nonAI companies
and legacy software companies of various
sorts and so forth. How are you thinking
about companies that don't own a model
that maybe have to buy intelligence from
another company or so forth? Who in your
view when you're thinking about private
or public companies, who that's not an
AI lab, what types of businesses survive
and which ones are not going to survive
if they don't own intelligence in the
raw.
>> Yeah. So I I will cover both of these
topics because I have pretty strong
views on what's happening in the
software market and then we can talk
about what's what the sort of future of
companies that don't own a model is. On
the latter point, we we can cover that
one first. Look, companies buy
solutions, right? And so, you know,
context is still king. In most
industries, there will be companies that
compound their knowledge of industry
specific workflows, industry specific
data that they attach to. And so,
oftentimes that won't be what the model
companies choose to pursue. You know,
customers buy solutions, they they don't
buy some discrete workflow or just a
database or a system to take action. So,
the most important thing is industry
context. You also need a throat to
choke, right? I think that's going to be
increasingly important for customers,
you know? So support, maintenance,
integrations, data partnerships, user
community, I think are all important
things for companies that are building
applications that are not model owners.
And I think in most verticals and many
of the functions in an organization,
there will be independent companies that
do that. Model companies are going to be
an arms dealer to most industries for
some tasks or work that are highly
horizontal or general. So something like
general knowledge management
>> inside of a corporation, the model
companies are probably pretty well
positioned for that. But you know things
like legal work, medical work, customer
support tasks, you know, a lot of stuff
that will happen in in sales,
accounting, finance, like those I think
those are going to be independent
vendors and the model companies are
going to be arms dealers to those. So
that I think is the future of
applications for companies that do not
own models. I think it's a very bright
future. We we've invested a lot in some
of these leading companies, but I think
both the model companies and those
companies will be big and successful on
the software side. Yeah. I mean, look,
the the the software industry has been
crushed in the public markets. We could
debate whether it's overblown or not,
but
>> I'll give you my diagnosis of the
situation, you know, not not
particularly on valuations of specific
companies, but here's what's going to
happen with the software companies in
the public markets. I think the issue is
not that there's going to be a ton of
new software in the future. There is
going to be a ton of new software in the
future. The whole story of SAS and cloud
was that the market grew 7x in size and
some of that was captured by incumbents.
Some of it was captured by startups. The
issue is are the incumbents that are in
the public markets going to actually be
the ones that capture that? And by the
way, I think it'll be much bigger than
7x this time. So why is it, you know,
sort of a question of whether those
incumbents have the chance to do it?
First of all, it's probably going to be
much harder for them to grow, right? All
the new budget basically in any buyer
organization is going toward AI
initiatives right now. Now, it doesn't
mean that they're ripping out their
software systems. Gross dollar retention
remains extremely high for these
incumbent software systems, and I think
it will for a while. But if you look
since 2021,
net dollar retention of these companies
has steadily declined.
>> If you look at the amount of revenue
that the entire software industry is
adding in 2026, the amount of revenue
that OpenAI and Enthropic alone will add
is going to be greater than the amount
of the total revenue added by all of the
software market. like that's SAP into
it, Salesforce, Workday, Service Now,
all those vendors. So the growth is
actually going toward AI initiatives.
And so you know, yes, they may not be
getting ripped out, those incumbent
vendors, but it's going to be much
harder for them to find growth. So, you
know, from a product standpoint, they're
not going to get torn out, but they
really run the risk of value getting
built on top of them. So those are going
to be systems of record, but you just
build new vendors, build new products
that can take action on top of those.
And I think that's a real risk for the
software industry right now. If building
software, the process of building
software becomes much faster. There's a
another dynamic where every vendor can
basically increase the amount of SKUs
they offer rapidly, massively. And so if
you are a platform vendor of choice and
you sell a bunch of software in this
domain, chances are everyone in the in
the nearby domains will also have those
products and they'll all try to sell
those new products and it'll get more
competitive. So I think that's a dynamic
that's that's really a risk for them.
The most powerful change that I think is
going to happen which we're only seeing
early signals of is a business model
shift. So when these technology shifts
happen, you know, a new user interface,
new workflows, new data that you access,
that favors, you know, newcomers, you
know, over incumbents, when you pair it
with a business model shift, that
massively favors the newcomers, right?
Because it's so hard to react if you're
one of the incumbents. And so the big
shift if you if you just take a spectrum
of business models that's happened you
know we used to sell license maintenance
software we moved that to you know
seatbased subscription then with the
clouds a lot of companies have become
consumptionbased pricing models and in
the future with AI and a lot of domains
it's going to be outcome based pricing
you can see this first in the customer
support industry because there's sort of
verifiable tasks that those companies
have to complete but to the extent that
we actually get to the point where the
predominant way that that enterprises
want to buy is via outcomes and they can
measure those results. I think it's
going to be really tough for the
incumbent.
>> David George and Horwitz, thank you so
much for uh coming on Oddlos. That was
fascinating. Learned a ton and really
appreciate you taking your time.
>> Thanks so much, [music] David.
>> Great to be with you all. Thanks for
having me.
>> [music]
>> Tracy, I thought that was a fascinating
conversation. So much there. And you
know, it's fun to talk tech, but also
have it be such a capital marketsheavy
conversation.
>> Yeah, I kind of the idea of software
companies, their value resting in the
fact that they're like convenient
scapegoats for management. Yeah, it's
kind of funny in a dystopian way, but
>> I remember Steve Balmer said that years
ago when he was talking about why Linux
wouldn't take off cuz he's like, "No,
what are you going to just like who are
you going to get upset when your Linux
goes down?" Although then companies did,
you know, Redhead grew up to like
professionally service. I thought that
was very interesting the idea of like
outcomebased pricing but just also some
of the numbers are staggering just like
how big you know this is I've thought
about this with like um when people look
at the public markets
>> and they say well yeah it's not that
overvalued because you know most of the
public companies are making a lot of
money if you were to sort of like build
one index of big private and public
companies you would have a lot of market
cap on companies that aren't making
money yet and that would very much like
sort
skew your view of the sort of like total
valuation of the universe of tech
companies.
>> Absolutely. Well, the other thing I was
thinking is just that question of
whether or not that kind of the balance
between private and public starts to
reverse because so much of the
excitement right now is about AI which
you know is spending billions and
billions and needs huge pools of
capital. I guess the counterpoint to
that is like there's a self-reinforcing
trend in the private market which is
like if that's where all the growth is,
if that's where people are making all
the money, it tends to attract even more
capital. So I don't know, maybe maybe AI
means that private capital grows even
more and so AI can keep tapping it.
>> There seems to just be an endless amount
of money in the Middle East
specifically. you know, it's like raging
more from the UAE or Saudi or whatever
that just keeps these uh companies
private. If I were at like um open, I
would be really anxious about selling in
a tender. I would be like I don't want
to I I believe I believe I swear I
believe in I believe we're going to get
there to ASI or whatever. I would be
really uncomfortable about it tapping
out and hedging my portfolio.
>> Joe, you'd have to be very very
important for the founder to actually
care about what you're doing with your
shares, but I'm sure you would be.
[laughter]
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
David George. He's davidjgeeorge83.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
karman dashelbennet at Dashbot and Kale
Brooks at Kalebrooks. And for more
OddLaws content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlaw
to have a daily newsletter on all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss. [music]
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you like
it when we talk about private versus
public markets, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite [music]
podcast platform. And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes [music]
absolutely adree. All you need to do is
find the Bloomberg channel on Apple
Podcasts and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
>> [music]